Group conversation on the 12th and 13th of February

Hanna: Hey guys we just finished the design of the 2 pages sign in and sign up we committed to our individual branches so you can check them out there. Claudia and Ali you should commit your changes to your individual branches as well

‪Claudia‬: Yes Ali has the code so I guess he can do that?

Hanna: Then on Thursday we will merge all things related into master

Ali‬: I'll take a look

Ahmed: I also separated the CSS from the style tags of the index to its own file.

Hanna: The logo will be modified in the future so that's not the final look of the pages

Cynthia‬: awesome I’ll look at it so we can start our part tonight

Hanna: Cool guys let us know what you need help with

Andrew‬: cool :) yo Fatin, let me know when you'll be free we have to work on our part as well
‪
Tashnim‬: Yeah I'm not home yet but I can work on it tonight and tomorrow anytime @Cynthia Cherrier

Cynthia ‬: so... I don't really understand /how/ to work on the project lmao do i just open up the html files for the login/sign up and modify them to include MySQL & stuff and then commit my modified file to my branch ?

Cynthia ‬: also can you guys tell me which task was completed on which day so I can modify the burndown chart?

Cynthia ‬: I guess I need Ali's file for the login thing so I can't start tonight

Ali‬: I'll get it as soon as I can
‪
Ali‬: everyone is probably asleep by now
‪
Ali: but I got some good news

Ali ‬: login, logout, and signup work properly now

Ali ‬: what's left to do is to make the username display in the main page

Ali ‬: and to save the messages in the db.

Ali ‬: I will post the files now

Ali ‬: there's quite a bit of change

Ali ‬: but hopefully everything makes sense

Andrew ‬: Alright, me and Fatin will be meeting on Wednesday to work on the confirmation, I wish we could meet earlier 

Ali ‬: confirmation is done I believe

Andrew ‬: Oh really?!

Ali ‬: it's part of the passport.js file

Ali ‬: in the Ali branch

Andrew ‬: Welp...what else is there to do left then?

Ali ‬: make sure that it didn't screw up, I guess

Ali ‬: I could very well have made a mistake somewhere in there

Andrew ‬: Alright then

Andrew ‬: We'll find something to do eventually

Ali ‬: there's quite a bit of db stuff to be done

Ali ‬: I'll get to that tomorrow when I get some sleep

Andrew ‬: Alright, we'll talk tmr

Ahmed: Awesome progress @Ali Bakkali

Claudia‬: Let me know if you need anything guys I'm really willing to help out

Fatin‬: I still don't understand what work I and Andrew have to do.

Ali ‬: there's a bit of overlap between the tasks

Ali ‬: next sprint we'll be counting on you guys

Ali ‬: to make sure users are properly set up and that nothing is breaking

Tashnim‬: Ohhh so if I understand this correctly account creation and confirmation is done?

Ali ‬: account creation is done yes, but it's not quite where we want it to be

Ali ‬: right now the accounts are only created with username and password

Ali ‬: what we'd like to do is to have an email sent to confirm that the person truly owns that email address

Ali ‬: that's what Claudia and I are trying to implement

Ali ‬: but I don't believe it's a requirement for this sprint

Cynthia ‬: ok but then there’s 2 team who have nothing to do... we should try to do a little something before the end of the sprint lmao

Ali ‬: sorry about that a lot of the tasks are dependent on other tasks

Ali ‬: but I think next sprint it'll be different

Cynthia ‬: yeah dw I understand!!

Tashnim‬: @Cynthia Cherrier  I guess if it's possible we can add like birthdate to the account and also if they are a teacher or student?

Cynthia‬: hmm yeah maybe but first we need to understand how the database works lol

Ali ‬: for now it just does :|

Ali ‬: that's mongodb for ya

Ali ‬: works well, but works in mysterious ways

Tashnim‬: Ohhh I see, well that's okay! Thank you so much for handling the hard work

Cynthia‬: yeah thank you! :)

Ali ‬: it's about to a bit tougher, but hopefully we'll manage

Claudia: Ye me and Ali are meeting at 3 to work on email stuff but don't worry u guys can add some stuff to the page

Cynthia‬: I have a break from 11:30 to 6:30pm tomorrow so   @Tashnim if you're free i think we could work on the design of the home page ! Its not part of any user story but its still going to be some progress

Claudia: Guys

Claudia: We found a way to continuously run the website

Claudia: It's currently live forever at

Claudia: connectconcordia.tk:3000 check it out

Cynthia‬: Niiice

Claudia: Yup sign up and sign in work

Claudia: It would be cool for u and Tash to check out website and work on it based on what's posted since u said u are meeting tmr

Claudia: If you wanna do Some tests to edit the website u can go on chrome and right click and press inspect u can change the code that way

Claudia: And guys for every meeting please don't forgot to log everything in the documentation folder
‪
Fatin‬: Thanks

Claudia: No prob !

Ali ‬: the files are all inside the Ali branch

Ali ‬: once they are downloaded on the machine where you want to run it

Ali ‬: you can run 'npm install' to install the necessary packages found in package.json

Ali ‬: this assuming you're running on linux or macos

Ali ‬: make sure mongodb is running with 'mongod' command

Claudia: Awesome thanks so much !!

Ali ‬: then you can run 'node app.js' to run the site

Claudia: Hey guys I didn't push my stuff tommy own branch I only did the documentation and pushed it to master ... do we need to push to our own branch?

Ali ‬: I believe so

Claudia: As soon as I get home I'll get ur code Ali and I'll look into using mailgun

Ali ‬: then merge everything

Claudia: Yes

Claudia: I'll push to my branch once I'm done with email

Ali ‬: I'd say first commit the changes from Ali branch to yours

Claudia: Yes exactly

Ali ‬: so you may be able to implement email directly

Claudia: U mean pull

Claudia: Not commit

Claudia: Commit only saves pull gets data from the branch

Claudia: Okay so I work on Ali branch and then copy the info into Claudia branch?

Ali ‬: ah yes, pull

Claudia: Loll

Claudia: But I had a question

Claudia: Once I download the files to my local computer

Claudia: Is there a particular directory I need to save them too?

Ali ‬: no, just as long as they're all in the same directory

Claudia: Okay so I'll mkdir

Ali ‬: and you'll need to pull the changes into the Claudia branch

Claudia: And save the files there

Claudia: Yes

Claudia: I will

Ali ‬: and then perform the changes there

Claudia: But I'll do the changes on my computer first

Claudia: Or on GitHub

Ali ‬: computer first to make sure it's working

Ali ‬: at least that's how I do it

Claudia: What if I do this: I download the project files to my local and then I test them and then I push them to my dir ?

Claudia: U finished editing them so pulling from ur code will cause problems cause I'll update the code on my local?

Claudia: Push them to my branch I mean sorry

Ali ‬: it shouldn't cause issues

Ali ‬: it was tested

Claudia: Ye but if I pull

Claudia: I'll pull to get he new code

Claudia: The

Claudia: If anything was added

Claudia: As soon as I get home I'll test the app and keep u updated

Claudia: Cool thanks

Ali ‬: sure

Claudia: Awesome
