Group conversation on the 12th and 13th of February

Hanna: Hey guys we just finished the design of the 2 pages sign in and sign up we committed to our individual branches so you can check them out there. Claudia and Ali you should commit your changes to your individual branches as well

‪Claudia‬: Yes Ali has the code so I guess he can do that?

Hanna: Then on Thursday we will merge all things related into master

Ali‬: I'll take a look

Ahmed: I also separated the CSS from the style tags of the index to its own file.

Hanna: The logo will be modified in the future so that's not the final look of the pages

Cynthia‬: awesome I’ll look at it so we can start our part tonight

Hanna: Cool guys let us know what you need help with

Andrew‬: cool :) yo Fatin, let me know when you'll be free we have to work on our part as well
‪
Tashnim‬: Yeah I'm not home yet but I can work on it tonight and tomorrow anytime @Cynthia Cherrier

Cynthia ‬: so... I don't really understand /how/ to work on the project lmao do i just open up the html files for the login/sign up and modify them to include MySQL & stuff and then commit my modified file to my branch ?

Cynthia ‬: also can you guys tell me which task was completed on which day so I can modify the burndown chart?

Cynthia ‬: I guess I need Ali's file for the login thing so I can't start tonight

Ali‬: I'll get it as soon as I can
‪
Ali‬: everyone is probably asleep by now
‪
Ali: but I got some good news

Ali ‬: login, logout, and signup work properly now

Ali ‬: what's left to do is to make the username display in the main page

Ali ‬: and to save the messages in the db.

Ali ‬: I will post the files now

Ali ‬: there's quite a bit of change

Ali ‬: but hopefully everything makes sense

Andrew ‬: Alright, me and Fatin will be meeting on Wednesday to work on the confirmation, I wish we could meet earlier 

Ali ‬: confirmation is done I believe

Andrew ‬: Oh really?!

Ali ‬: it's part of the passport.js file

Ali ‬: in the Ali branch

Andrew ‬: Welp...what else is there to do left then?

Ali ‬: make sure that it didn't screw up, I guess

Ali ‬: I could very well have made a mistake somewhere in there

Andrew ‬: Alright then

Andrew ‬: We'll find something to do eventually

Ali ‬: there's quite a bit of db stuff to be done

Ali ‬: I'll get to that tomorrow when I get some sleep

Andrew ‬: Alright, we'll talk tmr

Ahmed: Awesome progress @Ali Bakkali

Claudia‬: Let me know if you need anything guys I'm really willing to help out

Fatin‬: I still don't understand what work I and Andrew have to do.

Ali ‬: there's a bit of overlap between the tasks

Ali ‬: next sprint we'll be counting on you guys

Ali ‬: to make sure users are properly set up and that nothing is breaking

Tashnim‬: Ohhh so if I understand this correctly account creation and confirmation is done?

Ali ‬: account creation is done yes, but it's not quite where we want it to be

Ali ‬: right now the accounts are only created with username and password

Ali ‬: what we'd like to do is to have an email sent to confirm that the person truly owns that email address

Ali ‬: that's what Claudia and I are trying to implement

Ali ‬: but I don't believe it's a requirement for this sprint

Cynthia ‬: ok but then there’s 2 team who have nothing to do... we should try to do a little something before the end of the sprint lmao

Ali ‬: sorry about that a lot of the tasks are dependent on other tasks

Ali ‬: but I think next sprint it'll be different

Cynthia ‬: yeah dw I understand!!

Tashnim‬: @Cynthia Cherrier  I guess if it's possible we can add like birthdate to the account and also if they are a teacher or student?

Cynthia‬: hmm yeah maybe but first we need to understand how the database works lol

Ali ‬: for now it just does :|

Ali ‬: that's mongodb for ya

Ali ‬: works well, but works in mysterious ways

Tashnim‬: Ohhh I see, well that's okay! Thank you so much for handling the hard work

Cynthia‬: yeah thank you! :)

Ali ‬: it's about to a bit tougher, but hopefully we'll manage

Claudia: Ye me and Ali are meeting at 3 to work on email stuff but don't worry u guys can add some stuff to the page

Cynthia‬: I have a break from 11:30 to 6:30pm tomorrow so   @Tashnim if you're free i think we could work on the design of the home page ! Its not part of any user story but its still going to be some progress

Claudia: Guys

Claudia: We found a way to continuously run the website

Claudia: It's currently live forever at

Claudia: connectconcordia.tk:3000 check it out

Cynthia‬: Niiice

Claudia: Yup sign up and sign in work

Claudia: It would be cool for u and Tash to check out website and work on it based on what's posted since u said u are meeting tmr

Claudia: If you wanna do Some tests to edit the website u can go on chrome and right click and press inspect u can change the code that way

Claudia: And guys for every meeting please don't forgot to log everything in the documentation folder
‪
Fatin‬: Thanks

Claudia: No prob !

Ali ‬: the files are all inside the Ali branch

Ali ‬: once they are downloaded on the machine where you want to run it

Ali ‬: you can run 'npm install' to install the necessary packages found in package.json

Ali ‬: this assuming you're running on linux or macos

Ali ‬: make sure mongodb is running with 'mongod' command

Claudia: Awesome thanks so much !!

Ali ‬: then you can run 'node app.js' to run the site

Claudia: Hey guys I didn't push my stuff tommy own branch I only did the documentation and pushed it to master ... do we need to push to our own branch?

Ali ‬: I believe so

Claudia: As soon as I get home I'll get ur code Ali and I'll look into using mailgun

Ali ‬: then merge everything

Claudia: Yes

Claudia: I'll push to my branch once I'm done with email

Ali ‬: I'd say first commit the changes from Ali branch to yours

Claudia: Yes exactly

Ali ‬: so you may be able to implement email directly

Claudia: U mean pull

Claudia: Not commit

Claudia: Commit only saves pull gets data from the branch

Claudia: Okay so I work on Ali branch and then copy the info into Claudia branch?

Ali ‬: ah yes, pull

Claudia: Loll

Claudia: But I had a question

Claudia: Once I download the files to my local computer

Claudia: Is there a particular directory I need to save them too?

Ali ‬: no, just as long as they're all in the same directory

Claudia: Okay so I'll mkdir

Ali ‬: and you'll need to pull the changes into the Claudia branch

Claudia: And save the files there

Claudia: Yes

Claudia: I will

Ali ‬: and then perform the changes there

Claudia: But I'll do the changes on my computer first

Claudia: Or on GitHub

Ali ‬: computer first to make sure it's working

Ali ‬: at least that's how I do it

Claudia: What if I do this: I download the project files to my local and then I test them and then I push them to my dir ?

Claudia: U finished editing them so pulling from ur code will cause problems cause I'll update the code on my local?

Claudia: Push them to my branch I mean sorry

Ali ‬: it shouldn't cause issues

Ali ‬: it was tested

Claudia: Ye but if I pull

Claudia: I'll pull to get he new code

Claudia: The

Claudia: If anything was added

Claudia: As soon as I get home I'll test the app and keep u updated

Claudia: Cool thanks

Ali ‬: sure

Claudia: Awesome

Hanna: @Cynthia Cherrier @Fatin hey guys I just created a pull request with you 2 as reviewers it includes the conversation on the chat please approve it when u get the chance 

Tashnim‬: @Cynthia Cherrier  yes I can meet you tomorrow morning at 11:30 !

‪Cynthia‬: Ok good :) we can meet in a lab or smth bc i wont have my laptop with me !

‪Cynthia ‬: And ok i'll look at the pull request tonight

Tashnim ‬: Okay no problem!

‪Claudia‬: Guys

Claudia ‬: I made a YouTube tutorial on how to set up the environment

Claudia ‬: Like get the code from github and how to set it up to work on ur computers

Claudia ‬: Here's the link

Claudia ‬: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dYShcWBAWoI

Claudia ‬: I hope it helps lol

Claudia ‬: Hahaha no problem ! It took me a while to do but I wanna share with everyone and in case I forget

Hanna: Yeah it's a great idea

Claudia ‬: Great I'm glad it's useful

Claudia ‬: I did it cause I know u guys in the front end want to test the code

Claudia ‬: How's the front end teams going?

Tashnim ‬: I tried to follow the tutorial video, I installed node.js  and when it starts listening an error occurs and it doesn't work anymore

Claudia ‬: Really what's the error

Claudia ‬: Take pic

Tashnim ‬: Is there anything else I should install to make it work?

Tashnim ‬: Okay

Claudia ‬: What did u do?

Tashnim ‬: I downloaded files from Ali's branch and installed npm

Claudia ‬: That's so weird it does that

Claudia ‬: Did you install mongodb

Claudia ‬: I think u need that too

Tashnim ‬: Ohhh okay

Claudia ‬: Sorry I forgot to mention that

Claudia ‬: Install that

Tashnim ‬: Haha ok XD was wondering if I was missing something

Claudia ‬: Ye

Tashnim ‬: Do I just need to install it or do I need to set up the environment for mongodb environment?


Tashnim ‬: For now me and Cynthia were implementing styles directly on the index.ejs, signup.ejs files since we couldn't get it to work

Claudia ‬: Okay cool

Claudia ‬: But I think u should install mongo do

Claudia ‬: Do u guys have brew installed

Tashnim ‬: No 

Claudia ‬: Do brew install

Tashnim ‬: Okay

Tashnim ‬: I integrated the dsesign from Hanna and Ahmed's CSS files and put it on the ejs file, idk if that's helpful or we going to change that

Claudia ‬: Okay cool

Claudia ‬: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=_RQ4lET5ejw

Claudia ‬: Check this out girls

Claudia ‬: I hope this helps

Cynthia ‬: I made a new design for the index page using the .ejs file like tashnim said but i cant really do anything else since im on a computer at school so i cant install stuff :s

Claudia ‬: Oh okay it's okay did u preview it?

Claudia ‬: U can copy the code and preview it

Cynthia ‬: Yeah i can preview it on the web browser so its fine!

Claudia ‬: Okay that's awesome 

Claudia ‬: Take a pic I wanna see how it looks and guys as long as u can view it it's okay we can stitch everything. Together during the group meetings

Cynthia ‬: and yeah exactly ali can just add the file to his thing afterwards :)

Tashnim ‬: Claudia, Hanna, Andrew, and Ahmad you guys are our reviewers for the design

Cynthia ‬: We also updated the documentation for our meeting

Hanna: Ok then we will approve the request tonight and I will include the convo on group in the documentation

Hanna: Great work guys

Hanna: Can you guys tell me what's left to do before friday

Ali ‬: it's on me

Ali‬: gotta make the usernames display on the page

Ali ‬: and private chatroome

‪Ali‬: chatrooms*

Hanna: Awesome guys we are doing great 
Ali if you need any help let us know

Fatin‬: Guys I don't mind doing nothing or little this sprint if there's no grade reduction. But I'm thinking the team or just me might get penalized for task distribution. If someone does nothing what happens?

Ali ‬: we can mention that the roles some teams play are far more involved in the coming sprints

Ali ‬: he did say he wanted to see near equal contribution from all team members

Ali‬: near the end we will have to make sure there's parity there

Claudia ‬: Oh Cynthia btw

Claudia ‬: I love ur website

Claudia ‬: But I added something to it, I added a black background with a 0.7 opacity I think I commented on the issue on github take a look and let me know what u think

Andrew‬: Hey guys, me and fatin are having a meeting

Andrew‬: So we're wondering what are the tasks left that we can do to help you guys out

Cynthia ‬: i'm not sure but i think we still need to verify if the user enters a valid email when creating an account?
‪
Andrew‬: I thought Ali did the validation

Fatin‬: How about we write javascript functions that formats user info fields like student id? For example the user input for id can be only numbers and 8 max

Cynthia ‬: yeah thats what i was thinking like using regexp and stuff

Fatin‬: Where do we find the latest sign up page? Which branch?

Tashnim ‬: Uhhh I took Ali's signup.ejs and added CSS style to it, so I guess it's the one I uploaded. I think I put Andrew as reviewer

Tashnim ‬: And yeah JavaScript functions should be useful!

Fatin‬: Hi Tashnim. I want to download the latest sign up page. Can you help me?

Fatin‬: I cant see such a page on your branch

Tashnim ‬: Maybe cuz it's not approved yet, give me five min sorry I'll upload it to my branch 

Fatin: Kk

Andrew‬: I reviewed and merged it

Andrew‬: So you edited the design inside html file?

Tashnim ‬: Yeah and I think you should write the JavaScript functions on that same ejs file because it's not exactly an HTML file and it's referred to something so I didn't wanna mess it up

Tashnim ‬: We couldn't make direct changes to the site because we didn't know how to set up mongodb on my computer, so hopefully Ali can copy paste our code into the actual site

Andrew‬: Hey guys :)

Andrew ‬: We thought of something to do

Andrew: We can maybe make a profile setting page so that user can modify personal information :)

Andrew ‬: How does that sound?

Tashnim ‬: That sounds like a great idea

Fatin‬: We just finished our meeting. We coded js functions to validate the student id as well as the minimum length of a new password.

Andrew ‬: It's small features but we thought it will be good to have it

